In my younger and more vulnerable years, my father gave me some advice that I've been turning over in my mind ever since. Whenever you feel like criticizing anyone, he told me, just remember that all the people in the world haven't had the advantages that you've had. He didn't say any more, but we've always been unusually communicative in a reserved way. And I understand that he meant a great deal more than that. In consequence, I'm inclined to reserve all judgments. A habit that has opened up many curious natures to me and also made me the victim of not a few veteran boars. The abnormal mind is quick to detect and attach itself to this quality when it appears in a normal person. And so it came about that in college I was unjustly accused of being a politician because I was privy to secrets of the wild unknown men. Most of the conferences were unsought. Frequently I have famed sleep, preoccupation, or a hostile levity when I realized by some unmistakable sign that an intimate revelation was quivering on a horizon. For the intimate revelations of young men or at least in terms of which they expressed them are usually plagiaristic and marred by obvious suppressions. Having judgments is a matter of infinite hope. I am still a little afraid of missing something if I forgot that as my father snobbishly suggested. And I snobbishly repeat, a sense of fundamental decencies is puzzled out on equally a birth. And after boasting this way of my tolerance, I come to the admission that it has a limit. One duck may be founded on hard rock or wet marshes, but after a certain point I don't care what it's founded on. I came back to the east last autumn. I felt that I wanted the world to be in uniform and a sort of moral attention forever. I wanted no more righteous excursions with privileged climpses into a human heart. Only Gatsby, the man who gives his name to this book, was exempt from my reaction. That's me, who represented everything for which I have unaffected scorn. If personality is an unbroken series of successful gestures, there was something gorgeous about him, some unhightened sensitivity to the promises of life, as if they were related to one of those intricate machines that register earthquakes 10,000 miles away. This responsiveness had nothing to do with what Flabby and Prussian ability, which was dignified under the name of creative temperament. It was an extraordinary gift of hope, a romantic readiness such as I have never found in any other person in which is not likely I shall ever find again. No, Gatsby turned out all right at the end. It is what preyed on Gatsby, what foul dust floated in the wake of his dreams that temporarily closed out my interest in the abortive sorrows and show short-winded relations of men. My family have been prominent, well-to-do people in this middle western city of three generations. The caroways are something of a clan, and we have tradition that were descended from the Duke's suburluck. But the actual founder of my line was my grandfather's brother, who came here in 51, sent a substitute to the Civil War and started a whole sale hardware business that my father carries on today.
